of chatting with Johar Moore and his condominium residence in Austin about his recollections of what it was like to be a student back a few years ago at Texas A&M.
It's 2 p.m.
Yes, 2 p.m.
Why did you attend A&M in the first place?
Oh, my brother had gone there, my older brother.
Warren, and he was a class of 31.
He first went to Lawn Morris College in Jacksonville, transferred to A&M in agriculture.
He had to drop out his senior year because of depression.
But things got a little better by when I graduated in 34.
And so I was pretty well sold on A&M.
You went to high school in?
Alvin.
In Alvin.
Had you visited the campus before you came up?
Yes.
One time, my older brother took me up there, and he and I talked whether I should take engineering or agriculture.
And I remember he said that calculus is real hard or chemistry is hard.
But anyhow, I decided to take engineering.
All right.
Do you have any recollections of that first trip?
How long were you there, and what did it seem like to you?
Well, I'd say that we weren't there very long, maybe several hours.
And it could be that we were going from one place to another and just stopped by there.
We didn't visit anyone or talk to anyone.
Okay.
So we just drove around the campus, and that's it.
All right.
When you came up then to enroll,
How did you get there?
My dad and mother drove me and a friend up in a Model T Ford.
And a long trip from Alvin?
Well, it wasn't too long.
Actually, it was around 130 or 140.
But the roads weren't as good from Alvin to Houston then.
But they weren't too bad from Houston to Hempstead.
And then the old Welburn Road is one that came over.
I think it was paved then.
What did you bring in the way of clothing and gear and anything?
Let's see.
We had a catalog, and it advised to bring a footlocker.
So we bought a footlocker and marked the clothes.
They had almost everything that they had.
I didn't take very many clothes because I knew I was going to get uniforms.
So I had very little clothes, just underwear.
No shirts.
Was there anything for you freshman special before the academic year began in the fall?
No.
Y'all didn't come early or anything like that?
I think we came on a Sunday.
If I'm not mistaken, we started making our selections and enrolling on Monday.
Describe the campus as it was when you were a fish.
What was there?
What were the buildings?
Well, of course, I guess it would be the West Gate was the main part from the depot.
Most everything centered from the depot back to the main building.
At that time, they had a couple fairly good dormitories, fairly new.
Where were those new dormitories?
Well, I selected Walton Hall.
We had a little bit of a chance.
The engineers were over there in Walton Hall.
And on Monday, after we looked around, I actually...
asked if we could get in.
They said if you're taking engineering, you can as a Corps of Engineers.
So my friend and I both started out in engineering.
And your outfit, what outfit were you assigned?
B Company Engineers.
Did it have a nickname?
No.
Did that end up being a special group of people for you?
Oh yes.
Please, at length, tell about that.
Well, I'd say that we were all on one stoop, and there weren't too many.
And CB Company was in A rampantly.
Anyhow, the fellows that stayed
and survived, got to know each other pretty well and I'd say probably my friend, he decided that he was going to take a different course and he dropped out and later he dropped out and went to the University of Houston.
There was four fellows that graduated at the same time I did at Alvin and I was the only one that stayed after about a year and a half.
Did you know pretty well what your major was going to be when you got there?
Yes.
Why?
There was oil drilling in the area.
When I was about a sophomore or junior in high school, Texaco found the Manville Field.
My dad had quite a lot of land.
He had three dairies, and there was no activity near us.
It was about 20 miles away.
But they were doing seismograph work in our area.
And that's the first experience that I had.
I actually opened some gates to our farm so that the shell, they were running Tarzan balance crew at that time.
They paid me five cents a gate.
That's the first money I made in the oil business.
My dad was very much interested, and he encouraged me to go in the oil business, even though I had a pretty good choice of going into agriculture.
Describe as well as you can, as thoroughly as you can, what it was like to be a fish.
And what year is this, 1930?
Yes, 34.
1934.
What was it like to be a fish?
It was the fall of 34.
Well, I was scared to death.
Most of the time.
It really wasn't that.
I was probably, I never was homesick.
And I suppose because, maybe because I'd worked so much and I wasn't a very good student the first year because the background that I had wasn't too good.
I actually failed the course first year.
After that, I made pretty good grades.
Tell me about haircuts and uniforms.
They didn't have the shortcuts then.
They really didn't.
They issued us a jacket and trousers.
We had to buy our shirts.
That's for freshmen and sophomores.
When you got to be a junior, I believe you could buy your own clothes with better quality and so forth.
And of what kind of material and color were these core uniforms then?
Khaki.
I'll show you a picture if that describes it.
Did you have the campaign hat?
A campaign hat, and did seniors have the same?
They wore boots.
Same as today?
They wore boots, yeah.
Describe for me a typical weekday of activity for a freshman then.
What time did it begin, and what all happened during a typical day?
Well, you were assigned the upper classmen's
room to clean and make up the beds.
So you started fairly early.
Let's see, I think we would, I don't remember whether we cleaned before we went to breakfast or afterwards, but we made the beds.
And that's about all the, during the day, sometimes some of the sophomores would send you on an errand or something,
The engineers were a little different than some of the other companies or outfits like, say, the infantry or so forth.
They didn't have the studious people, and actually our commander enforced the study real good at night.
What time was Reveille day?
God, I don't know.
when the bugle blew.
And did you all fall out for?
Oh yeah, we marched every meal.
Every meal.
Yes.
And in those days you ate at?
Sebesa Hall.
At Sebesa.
Describe for me the routine at meals for freshmen.
Who sat at what table and how?
Well, we sat like companies and they alternate the freshmen with sophomores and they would
You had to do a few things to correct your manners and so forth, and they had certain things that you had to do.
Describe those, please.
Well, you had to learn the terminology, like shoot, let's see, to order something, instead of passing it, you say shoot the bull, and that was beef.
Okay.
What were some of the other slang terms for the food?
I've forgotten.
Tea, butter, milk, dessert.
That's kush.
Kush and dessert.
I forget what they call a bread.
Anyhow.
And could freshmen eat whatever they wanted, whenever they wanted?
Well, in our particular company, they weren't too...
restricted.
We got enough to eat.
Alright, and classes were normally what time of day?
Eight.
You had classes all morning.
Did you march to class?
No.
That was one thing we used to do for breakfast especially.
The sophomores would tell us to bring out some milk or sweet rolls for them.
So we would hide that in our
under our shirts to try to get by.
They always had a sergeant at the door going out of Sabisa Hall to try to catch us, but I never did get caught.
And they just had poor eyesight.
They just didn't notice that y'all had... I don't think they cared.
They were regular army sergeants.
And then was there any difference in the routine, breakfast, lunch, dinner?
Well, I'd say there was more organized activity at the dinner.
A lot of times they would make announcements and do certain things.
Do you remember any favorite foods at the dining halls?
Some that were particularly good?
Really, the food was all good.
I had no complaints.
And was it adequate in quantity?
Oh, yes.
Let's see.
You ate with your outfit.
As you look back now, did that outfit have any effect on you as you were maturing?
Any of those friends?
No.
I'd say about the only thing
that I didn't really, I wasn't too much into the hazing of underclassmen.
And at some point I made up my mind that I would never haze an underclassman.
Were you hazed as a freshman?
Not too much.
Describe what it was.
Well, if you did something,
particular sophomores.
Usually the sophomores were kind of in charge of the freshmen and the juniors in charge of the softs and seniors were over everybody.
Actually they had boards and I'd say that they had a, I guess you'd call it a
what would you call a, they had what they call Christmas licks.
And they'd give you some licks before you went home.
And where did that happen?
In the hallway?
In your room.
They'd come in your room.
No, that's correct, because when I was a sophomore, I would go in and beat on the bed instead of the kids.
Did you do push-ups and any other routines?
No, duck bonk.
They make you do that sometimes.
That was when you fouled up in drilling.
And we really fouled up a lot of time.
Where did drills, where were they held?
Actually, the companies drilled out in the street or in the area nearby.
When all of them got together, we very seldom, let's see, I'd say maybe every month or so they'd have a large drill and all go to the drill field, which is across from the MSC right now.
In the afternoons, if nothing was scheduled, what did you all do?
Well, there was something scheduled all the time.
I'd say the Saturdays and Sundays were about the only time we had very much time off.
See, we either had class or P.E.
or intermural games.
We had pretty well organized intermural.
So he was doing something of that.
I worked the first year.
Oh, describe your job and pay and so forth.
There was a fellow that ran a nursery.
at Alvin and he graduated from A&M and he knew the fellow Hensel, his head was an agriculture department, did you ever hear of him?
And he spoke a word to him and I got a job.
And I worked, now that's why I was wondering what I was doing in the extra time.
I worked about, I'd say, three or four days a week for say an hour or two.
pulling or doing work around, and we paid 25 cents an hour.
That was in the first year.
Was this on the campus, flower beds and so forth?
It was right there.
It's where they, just across from the polo field.
That's where they had all their stuff at that time.
Oh, so you're saying this was part of the ag experiment area?
or ag research.
This was not landscaping.
Oh, no.
No, we didn't work on the campus of landscaping.
We worked for Mr. Henssel.
He was head, Dr. Henssel.
He was head of biology or botany or whatever.
Right.
This was in a, these would have been ag research fields.
Yes.
Ah.
Yeah.
And all we did, we were assigned to a fellow, an older gentleman named Zittipel.
He was a real old gentleman and he would tell us what to do and keep us working.
Did many students have jobs then?
Yeah.
Most of the good jobs that paid the most were at the mess hall, but I didn't apply for those.
I got this one and I was satisfied with working outside.
Do you have any idea of what those mess hall jobs paid?
No, I don't have any idea.
And do you have a guess as to what percentage of the students then had some sort of job?
I never had thought of it, but I'd say maybe 30 or 40 percent.
Do you remember what a year cost for a student then?
I'd say under $1,500.
But you don't remember a specific.
$1,500.
It went up a little bit each year.
All right, this money that you earned, for you, was that spending money or did that go to pay A&M bills?
Well, it was spending money, absolutely.
And what did a student spend money on in those days?
Hamburgers, sometimes, or ice cream.
Where?
We went into Bryan on the weekends.
How did you get there?
Hitchhike.
It's, they used to have a trolley, but it wasn't in, I'd say that we hitchhiked, caught a ride or something like that.
Had the trolley ceased by the time?
Yeah.
And there was no buses.
And do you remember down, where you ate those hamburgers?
Were there any famous place downtown Bryan?
Well, there was one cafe.
Actually, there was a hamburger place on campus.
It was called Joe's Place.
It was a little house.
Some good old fella.
He'd make hamburgers.
So between meals, if you'd get something to eat, you'd go there.
But in town, they had a, it was a Lebanese restaurant.
In fact, Halibuti had, you know, he's left.
This is Mike Halibuti from Beaumont.
Yeah.
But he was there just before I was.
He was in graduate school.
But he was dating one of these beautiful gals.
Maybe that's why this,
restaurant was so good, I don't remember the name of the restaurant.
It was owned by a Lebanese family.
They had two or three daughters.
It was pretty good looking.
And this was in Bryan?
In Bryan.
In Bryan, yeah.
Street off of Texas.
When y'all went to the movie, where'd you go to the movie?
Well, you could go in Bryan, or most of the time you went at A&M.
Where?
Well, they had a building there, and it's torn down now.
Named Guyon Hall?
No, no.
They had a regular movie place.
They had a balcony.
On the campus?
Yes.
But not Guyon?
No, no.
That was a big assembly place.
They actually had a wooden building.
Over near Northgate, wasn't it?
Over near Cebiza?
Yeah, it wasn't too far from Cebiza.
It's where the church is now.
The student chapel.
Yeah.
When you went to the movie, was there a certain, were you more likely to go on the weekends?
It's possible that they didn't have them except on weekends.
But they had a balcony downstairs.
They sold peanuts, and the guys upstairs would throw down peanuts to hit somebody down below.
The thing was trying to hit them hard enough to break the shell on the peanuts.
Where did a student go in those days to buy alcoholic beverage?
I believe that, I'm not sure, what year did beer come in?
36, wasn't it?
So it was dry when I was there, and there were bootleggers in the area, I guess.
Do you remember where any of them operated?
No.
And Hard Liquors wasn't open yet?
Well, I never did go to Hard Lakers.
I don't know why, and there wasn't a reason.
But there wasn't too much drinking in those days.
Please describe for me some pranks, some jokes, some good bull things that you were aware that somebody did while you were there.
Students playing a prank on another student.
Oh, gosh.
Tell me about as many as you can.
Well, I really don't know a whole lot.
But there was something going on all the time.
And I'd say what they call skying out.
What is that?
Well, that's putting a bucket of water on the door, open just a little bit, and then when someone goes in, the water comes down on them.
Throw it out the window if somebody passed it below.
Did you all stack their room?
Did anybody ever get his room stacked?
Oh, they do that all the time.
And what would be put in the room?
No, actually, what they did is just go in and take everything out of the drawers and throw it on the floor.
They didn't, let's see, what did they call that?
And they had all kinds of things.
And one of the funny things, it was another group.
The engineers, ordinarily, were kind of the ones that had to study more or a little more serious.
But there was another outfit.
I forget what they would be.
It could have been the band.
And they had a way that
They would dress up two guys as girls and tell some suspected person that there was a couple of girls out there.
And he would go out and he'd lay down between these two girls and then they would hold him down and embarrass him.
This would be out on the ground, outside?
Yeah, that'd be at night, of course, or late at night.
Did this kind of stunt have a name, or do you remember?
Well, I'm sure they had a name for it.
I don't know what it was.
Now, I've heard some stories about somebody coming back to his room and an animal being tied in his room.
Did that ever happen?
Not in what I was.
Let's see.
How was life different for a sophomore
than it had been for you as a freshman?
Well, it was a lot easier.
Why?
Well, you'd been there and were a little bit used to everything.
You learned how to study, so it was much more pleasant.
All right, you said that you made a kind of a mental decision.
You were never going to use a board on a... That is correct.
Why?
I didn't think it was... I didn't have a... I didn't resent it so much, but I just didn't think...
did any good and I felt sorry for the guys.
I liked them.
What did your fellow students think about your policy?
I'd say that our whole outfit over the four years that I was there pretty well had the same attitude.
You know that in hazing you get one radical guy that can hurt the whole thing and that was
In my freshman year, we only had two guys that were real bad.
I determined I wasn't going to be like that.
Did you all ever do anything back to pay off those two bad guys?
Not too much.
They both quit in time.
They've got a name for them.
Tell me in general,
about the student body?
Was it rural or urban, rich or poor?
I'd say it was mostly, if you give a percentage it would be maybe 75 percent.
Were they well to do or working?
There were very few well to do.
Just take my company.
I don't think that any of them were.
See, my closest friends, one of them was from San Antonio, and his dad had a tire company or worked for a tire company.
And some of the others, the captain of our company, his dad was a farmer.
And I'd say out of our small group, it was about half an agent actually.
But the whole school, mostly the agriculture school.
From what part of the state geographically?
Pretty much everywhere.
I knew boys from every part of the state.
And liberal, conservative?
Conservative.
Were there some memorable teachers, advisors, counselors that you could describe from your student days?
Well, one fellow that got to know names is Penberthy.
You ever hear of him?
Penny?
He was a friendly type of fellow, and I think he especially helped the freshmen.
What did he teach?
He taught PE, physical education.
And I'd say I didn't have as much contact with him after the freshman year.
But he had a lot of influence on making him more comfortable and getting adjusted to the university.
What about in other areas, like in engineering?
Some other teachers that you remember positively?
I'd say that one of the early teachers that impressed me was a fellow that lectured in chemistry.
His name was Brayden, Dr. Brayden.
Did he have a nickname?
No.
There were some that had a nickname.
Please share as many of those as you can recall.
Well, there was one that taught civil engineering.
It was Cuball.
What was his last name?
Do you remember?
All I remember is Cuball.
Cuball?
I'm not sure.
It could have been they had more than one Cuball.
And actually, for some reason, most of the... See, I was in geology.
We did have one fellow, this older fellow, who taught paleontology, I believe.
And they called him Fossili.
Remember his last name?
Bert, I think.
Fossili.
I'm not sure.
Okay.
And the head of the department, his name was Baker of Geology.
You see, I'm sure they had a nickname for him.
I started out in geological engineering.
And about my, after my sophomore year, I was advised that petroleum engineers
were more apt to get hired than geologists.
That's because of the condition of the oil business at that time.
So I changed two patrolling instruments.
And I liked Harold Vance.
He was head of the department.
Well, Stevens was his under him.
Burke Stevens.
And I'm not sure that either one of them had an enigma.
Let's see.
Math, English.
uh chemistry chemistry remember any nicknames for any of those areas physics mechanical drawing yes i wasn't too much into this all right let me let's think about these faculty members in a different way if if we all if you could go back and think
Some special individuals.
Can you think of some people that you'd like to wish you could tell them how much you appreciate what they meant to you?
Can you think of some?
Well, sure.
I'd say Penberthy.
Penberthy.